1) during the laboratory work, methods of working with dynamic databases in the Visual Prolog
environment were studied. The task of describing family relationships using a dynamic database is implemented, 
functions for adding, changing and deleting data, as well as saving changes are provided. The acquired skills
can be applied to work with other types of dynamic data and extend the functionality of programs in the Visual 
Prolog language.

2) during the laboratory work, methods of working with dynamic databases in the Visual Prolog environment w
ere studied. The task of describing family relationships using a dynamic database is implemented, functions 
for adding, changing and deleting data, as well as saving changes are provided. The acquired skills can be 
applied to work with other types of dynamic data and extend the functionality of programs in the 
Visual Prolog language.

3) The main purpose of the program is to help the user find the cause of the car breakdown. To do this, the program 
asks the user a number of questions about possible problems, and then makes a recommendation based on these answers.
The program consists of two main parts: a database containing information and logic that processes the user's
questions and issues an appropriate recommendation and conclusion.

4) Implement the tasks of searching for perfect numbers, generating permutations and combinations, 
naive and binary sorting in prolog.

5) In this laboratory work, skills in the Prolog programming language were mastered and applied in practice. 
The tasks of establishing a correspondence, the method of generating a hypothesis, the task of searching in 
the state space and visualization were considered. The subject area is a map of cities:
1 task: 
Condition: Three friends took the first, second and third places in the Universiade competitions. Friends are of different nationalities, they have different names and they love different sports.
Ivan prefers basketball and plays better than the American. Argentine Messi plays better than a tennis player. The football player took the first place.
Who is Russian? What kind of sport does Richard play?
Task 2: 
Condition:
1. If A is guilty and B is innocent, then C is guilty;
2. C never acts alone;
3. A never "goes to work" with C;
4. No one except A, B and C is involved in the crime, and at least one of these three is guilty.
The sergeant scratched his head and said, "I'm afraid I can't get too much out of these facts, sir. And can you, based on them, prove which of the three suspects is guilty and who is not guilty?"
"I can't," admitted Craig, "but there is quite enough material to bring an irrefutable accusation against one of them." Whose guilt is beyond doubt?
Task 3: 
Condition: The maze is a system of rooms connected by passages. The maze has an entrance and exit, as well as a room with a gold treasure. In addition, there are rooms that are forbidden to visit: the room of monsters and the room of robbers.
1. Find the way in the maze from the entrance to the exit without visiting the same room twice;
2. Find a way with a visit to the golden room;
3. Find a way to avoid forbidden rooms.
